# CS50 Weather App

### Video Demo: <URL HERE>

### Description

1. This is a weather forecast application, built entirely using JavaScript's most popular front-end library - React. It has been bootstrapped using the creat-react-app package and is built on top of this. React was chosen as the preferred JS library for an interactive web application, which reduces the development time and provides a big library of additional components, if needed. Consideration to use external state management tool (i.e. Redux) was done, but not used, due to the size of the application.

2. Data is fetched in real time from the [Open Weather Map API](https://openweathermap.org/api/) - two separate endpoints are used - first one to determine the geolocation of the city/town name that is entered (i.e. London) and second one is using this geolocation (in lattitude and longitude) to fetch the weather data. An API key is needed to use the application, which can be obtained for free from Open Weather Map API. The normal practice is not to save the key within the project (as it gets publically exposed via github), but in a .env file which is added to .gitignore and not tracked.

3. For styling purposes, a commonly used package, named **styled-components** was used, in order to ensure no class name conflicts and better architecture of components.

4. The project consists of 2 entry files (index.js and App.js) and 3 main directories:

   - content: where all of the static content is saved - in this case this consists only of images.
   - helpers: any shared helper JS code, which can be used in multiple components.
   - components: the main folder, containing nested React components, starting with the Dashboard component, which also does the data fetching and passes it down through props.

5. The components are situated in a nested folder structure, which roughly represents a hierarcical tree of the DOM.

6. The newest (at the time of creation) version of React was used for this project, which had React Hooks, therefore the components are entirely functional (as class components are slowly becoming obsolete) and hooks are used for managing state and lifecycle.

7. In addition to that PropTypes have been used to ensure passing of the correct types of props to all components. Further work can be done to split the components and make sure every component has a single responsibility, but as it is a small project, this would be the final state for now.

Enjoy!

P.S. The original autogenerated README.md was saved under REACT_HELP.md, so that information about web server start, etc is available.
